# STREAM-Sat
y seeks to fill this gap by proposing a quasi-global (in this case, all continental land masses within 50°N-50°S, though our method could be employed over the oceans and in polar regions subject to challenges described below) satellite-only ensemble precipitation dataset that, while evaluated over retrospective period here, could be deployed in near-realtime applications, limited only by the latency of the satellite inputs. Development of the dataset requires three key components: (1) a gridded input precipitation dataset—IMERG Early V06B in this case, but most global datasets would be suitable including high-resolution reanalysis such as ERA5; (2) a probabilistic depiction—typically referred to as an error model—of uncertainty for that input dataset at individual grid cell scale; and (3) a means of “connecting” that uncertainty across grid cells and time steps to generate ensemble realizations of precipitation that reflect the uncertainty in the input dataset over large areas. More detailed explanations of how we approach components 2 and 3, along with broader explanations of the challenges and past studies, are described in Li et al. (2023) and Hartke et al. (2022), respectively.

This repository is to create near-realtime global precipitation ensembles condition on satellite observations (IMERG: Integrated Multi-satellitE Retrievals for GPM; https://gpm.nasa.gov/data/imerg). We unify the methods proposed proposed in Li et al. (2023) doi:10.1109/tgrs.2023.3235270 and Hartke et al. (2022)  doi:10.1029/2021wr031650. 
The input of STREAM-Sat is (1) a gridded input precipitation dataset, such as IMERG Early V06B (2) an error model for that input dataset at individual grid cell scale; and (3) motion vector, MERRA2 or IMERG its own motion vector. (4) covariates, WAR in this example.
The output is (1) user-defined number of precipitation and noise ensembles.
The performance of ensembles can be evaluated by CR_calc.py and CRPS_calc.py.
